Add KUDO Cassandra Platform Service Docs (#3515)
mesosphere/dcos-docs-site: pages/dkp/kommander/1.3/projects/platform-services/platform-services-catalog/kudo-cassandra/index.md

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: KUDO Cassandra
render: mustache
title: KUDO Cassandra
menuWeight: 3
excerpt: Day 2 Operations of KUDO Cassandra
beta: false
---

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD018 -->
## KUDO Cassandra

> Kommander Catalog adds integration for [KUDO Cassandra Operator](https://github.com/kudobuilder/operators/tree/master/repository/cassandra/3.11), which simplifies day 2 operations of [Apache Cassandra](https://cassandra.apache.org/). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kommander Catalog adds integration for [KUDO Cassandra Operator](https://github.com/mesosphere/kudo-cassandra-operator/), which simplifies day 2 operations of [Apache Cassandra](https://cassandra.apache.org/). 
```

### Kommander Catalog

KUDO Cassandra is located in the Kommander Catalog.
#include /dkp/kommander/1.3/include/kommander-catalog-drilldown.tmpl

### Installation

From the [Project Catalog](/dkp/kommander/1.3/projects/platform-services/) select the desired version of Cassandra and click Deploy.

Here is an example of what should appear in the Kommander UI, the dialog is populated with sensible defaults:

![Cassandra Service Install Configuration](/dkp/kommander/1.3/img/platform-services-cassandra-config-dialog.png)

- The **ID** field above is referred to as the Cassandra `instance` by KUDO.
- [Detailed parameter descriptions](https://github.com/mesosphere/kudo-cassandra-operator/blob/v3.11.7-1.0.3/operator/params.yaml) and defaults are availabe for each version of KUDO Cassandra Operator, in this case version `3.11.7-1`

Select `Deploy` to install Cassandra.

- Kommander will proceed to install `kudo-controller-manager` in the `kudo-system` namespace if it does not already exist. This is the equivalent of issuing `kubectl kudo init` manually on the CLI.

> - KUDO will then install Cassandra in the Project namespace created via Kommander.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- KUDO will then install Cassandra in the Project namespace created using Kommander.
```

- The deployment progression can be viewed by looking at the `deploy` plan.

### KUDO Cassandra Service Status

The Operator Plan Status provides an overview of the service.

> At this point its useful to have an understanding of [KUDO Operator Plans](https://kudo.dev/docs/what-is-kudo.html#operator-plans) and the [KUDO CLI](https://kudo.dev/docs/cli/installation.html) should be installed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At this point it is useful to have an understanding of [KUDO Operator Plans](https://kudo.dev/docs/what-is-kudo.html#operator-plans) and the [KUDO CLI](https://kudo.dev/docs/cli/installation.html) should be installed.
```

- Get the instances running in the project namespace.

#include /dkp/kommander/1.3/include/kudo-cassandra-instance.tmpl

- Get the Plan status from the KUDO Cassandra Operator.

#include /dkp/kommander/1.3/include/kudo-cassandra-plans.tmpl

- A `deploy` plan status of `COMPLETE` indicates that KUDO Cassandra has deployed successfully and is healthy.

> If any issues are encountered during the above, the [Troubleshooting](#Troubleshooting) section has guidance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If any issues are encountered during the above, refer to the [Troubleshooting](#Troubleshooting) section.
```

### Available Parameters

The complete list of KUDO Cassandra Parameters can be found under [detailed parameter descriptions](https://github.com/mesosphere/kudo-cassandra-operator/blob/master/docs/parameters.md).

> The current set of parameters set can be reterived using the kubectl command with the two additional tools:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The current parameters set can be reterived using the kubectl command with the two additional tools:
```

- [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq)
- [yq](https://mikefarah.gitbook.io/yq)

To retrive the current parameters, issue the following command in the terminal with appropriate `INSTANCE` value set:
```
INSTANCE=cassandra;
kubectl get instances -o json | jq ".items[] | select(.metadata.name == \"$INSTANCE\") | .spec.parameters" | yq -e --yaml-output '.' > cassandra-params.yml
```

The above command generates a file called `cassandra-params.yml` with the current values of all the parameters in effect for the `cassandra` instance.

### Updating Parameters

> Parameters can be updated via arguements to the KUDO CLI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Parameters can be updated using arguments to the KUDO CLI.
```

**Example**: Increasing Cassandra node counts

> - Increase the number of nodes via the KUDO CLI:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Increase the number of nodes using the KUDO CLI:
```

```
kubectl -n test-project-zc6tc kudo update --instance cassandra -p NODE_COUNT=4
```
- Monitor the KUDO Cassandra deployment plan:
```
kubectl kudo plan status --instance cassandra -n test-project-zc6tc
```
- Wait for the deployment plan to have a status of `COMPLETE`

When the deployment plan is `COMPLETE` there should be 4 nodes as seen by the number of pods running:
```
kubectl get pods -n test-project-zc6tc
NAME               READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
cassandra-node-0   1/1     Running   0          62m
cassandra-node-1   1/1     Running   0          62m
cassandra-node-2   1/1     Running   0          61m
cassandra-node-3   1/1     Running   0          8m13s
```

**Example**: Updating multiple parameters:

> To update multiple paramters at once, its recommended to submit the updated parameters via the KUDO CLI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To update multiple parameters at once, it is recommended to submit the updated parameters using the KUDO CLI.
```

See [Available Parameters](#available-parameters) to get the full list of current parameters as a file.

> Apply the desired updates in `cassandra-params.yml` via the KUDO CLI:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Apply the desired updates in `cassandra-params.yml` using the KUDO CLI:
```

```
kubectl kudo update -n test-project-zc6tc --instance=cassandra -P cassandra-params.yml 
```
Wait for the deployment plan to `COMPLETE` as shown in the Cassandra node counts example.

### Upgrades

KUDO Cassandra versions can be upgraded using the KUDO CLI.

> **Example** Upgrade KUDO Cassandra from `v3.11.6-1` to `v3.11.7-1`:
> ```
> kubectl kudo upgrade cassandra -n test-project-zc6tc --instance cassandra --operator-version 1.0.2 
> ```

Reviewer 3: At first glance, it is not at all clear what `operator version 1.0.2` has to do with Cassandra `v3.11.7-1`.  I understand it _after_ reading the Cassandra operator docs page (which has a table), should there be a reference to that table here?  Also, in that table,
the versions are listed as `3.11.7-1.0.2` but here you have `v3.11.7-1`.  Which is correct?

Here's my suggested fix for these:  

```suggestion
**Example** Upgrade KUDO Cassandra from `v3.11.6-1.0.1` to `v3.11.7-1.0.2`:
When upgrading, you should understand the mapping between Cassandra versions and operator versions.   For more information, see the table at the end of the [Cassandra operator](https://github.com/mesosphere/kudo-cassandra-operator/tree/master/docs)
```
kubectl kudo upgrade cassandra -n test-project-zc6tc --instance cassandra --operator-version 1.0.2 
```
```

Wait and monitor the deployment plan to become `COMPLETE`.

### Monitoring

Kommander includes Prometheus and Grafana as part of the federated [Workspace Platform Services](/dkp/kommander/1.3/workspaces/workspace-platform-services) along with [Centralized Monitoring](/dkp/kommander/1.3/centralized-monitoring/).

KUDO Cassandra operator can export metrics to Prometheus, to do so set the `PROMETHEUS_EXPORTER_ENABLED` paramter to `true`:
```
kubectl kudo update -p PROMETHEUS_EXPORTER_ENABLED=true --instance cassandra -n test-project-zc6tc
```
- A prometheus-exporter container will run in the same pod as every Cassandra node container. It will listen for connections on `PROMETHEUS_EXPORTER_PORT`, which is set to `7200` by default.
- A prometheus-exporter-port will be added to the KUDO Cassandra operator `Service`.
- A `ServiceMonitor` will be created to make Prometheus poll that port for metrics.

Sample Grafana Dashboards can be found in the [monitoring directory](https://github.com/mesosphere/kudo-cassandra-operator/tree/master/monitoring/grafana).

> Grafana dashboards can be [imported](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/dashboards/export-import/) or recurring dashboards can be defined inline for Kommander to import via [adding custom dashboards](/dkp/kommander/1.3/centralized-monitoring/#adding-custom-dashboards). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Grafana dashboards can be [imported](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/dashboards/export-import/) or recurring dashboards can be defined inline for Kommander to import through [adding custom dashboards](/dkp/kommander/1.3/centralized-monitoring/#adding-custom-dashboards). 
```

![KUDO Cassandra Monitoring](/dkp/kommander/1.3/img/platform-services-cassandra-monitoring.png)

### External Access

> The KUDO Cassandra operator supports creation of a service that opens up ports to access Cassandra from outside the cluster. To enable this, you have to set the following variables:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The KUDO Cassandra operator supports creation of a service that opens up ports to access Cassandra from outside the cluster. To enable this, you have to set one or more of the following variables:
```

### Decommissioning KUDO Cassandra Nodes

KUDO Cassandra does not provide an automated way to scale down the Cassandra cluster, as this is a critical operation that should not be repeated frequently, and to discourage anti-patterns when managing an Apache Cassandra cluster.

KUDO Cassandra only supports decommissioning the node with the highest pod ordinal index. e.g. when having a cluster with following pods:
```
NAME               READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
cassandra-node-0   1/1     Running   0          62m
cassandra-node-1   1/1     Running   0          62m
cassandra-node-2   1/1     Running   0          61m
cassandra-node-3   1/1     Running   0          8m13s
```
We can only decommission cassandra-node-3 as it has the highest pod ordinal index 3.

Decommission the node
```
kubectl exec -it pod/cassandra-node-3 \
        -n test-project-zc6tc \
        -c cassandra \
        -- \
        nodetool decommission
```
Once the operation is completed, we can update the KUDO Cassandra Instance
```
kubectl kudo update -p NODE_COUNT=3 --instance cassandra -n test-project-zc6tc
```

> Once the update plan is complete, we can delete the PVC that was attached to the KUDO Cassandra pod/cassandra-node-3. Not deleting or cleaning the PVC will result in issues when scaling the cluster up next time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once the update plan is complete, you should delete (or clean) the PVC that was attached to the KUDO Cassandra pod/cassandra-node-3. Failing to delete or clean the PVC will result in issues when scaling the cluster up next time.
```

### Troubleshooting

KUDO provides the ability to collect logs and other [diagnostics data](https://kudo.dev/docs/cli/examples.html#collecting-diagnostic-data) for debugging and for bug-reports.
```
kubectl kudo diagnostics collect --instance cassandra -n test-project-zc6tc
```

The diagnostics data contains the following:

KUDO Environment
- Installed Manager and its logs.
- Service account and services.

Data for the specified Operator
- The Operator, OperatorVersion and Instance resources.
- Deployed resources from the operator.
- Logs from deployed pods

> To monitor all the events occurring in the namespace, its helpful to look at event log via:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To monitor all the events occurring in the namespace, its helpful to look at event log:
```
